title: Okeanos grants

## Research grants at the Okeanos supercomputer

Since July 2016 the ICM University of Warsaw offers the Okeanos
supercomputer to researchers – a Cray XC40 system. Okeanos has more
than 1000 compute nodes, each one having two 12-core Intel Xeon
Haswell processors and 128 GB RAM. All nodes of the system are
connected through by ultrascalable Cray Aries network in Dragonfly
topology.

Addressing the ICM'a technological challenges, Cray Inc. has built a
system which is an unprecedented HPC solution available in the
country. It's unique with respect to its high computing power,
scalability, and high performance graph data processing. It is well
suited and intended for calculations requiring few thousand CPU cores
and dozens of terabytes of RAM.

Okeanos system, along with its big data analytics and storage
solutions are key infrastructural components of the [OCEAN Competence
Centre](http://ocean.icm.edu.pl) at Białołęka, Warsaw. For more information.

## 6-th call for applications

We invite all researchers to apply for access to Okeanos within the
6-th call for applications.

### Terms and conditions

Types of research grants, support levels, evaluation criteria, and
results reporting have been covered in [a separate
document](././Granty_Okeanos_EN.pdf).

### Important dates

For A-type grants: Call is open until February 10, 2019. System access
will be provided for 1 year, starting on March 1, 2019.

For B and C-type grants: Applications are accepted continuously.

### Application form

- Application form in English:
  [PDF](./Formularz_Grant_En_Konkurs_5.pdf)

- Grant continuation form (for 1 year):
  [PDF](./Formularz_wniosek_o_przedluzenie_grantu.pdf)

### Submitting applications

Please register at [granty.icm.edu.pl](https://granty.icm.edu.pl) to
submit the grant application. The form with the grant-type specified
(A/B/C) should be attached as abstracts to the grant
application. Grant owner and member accounts have to be created
directly within the grant management system. For more information,
please see [this page](./en_jak_wystapic_o_grant_obliczeniowy.md).